Documentation updates (#416)
grafana/k8s-monitoring-helm: charts/k8s-monitoring/docs/ScrapeApplicationMetrics.md

# Scraping Additional Metrics

> If you have an application or a service running on your Kubernetes cluster that is exporting metrics, you may want to

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you have an application or a service running on your Kubernetes Cluster that is exporting metrics, you may want to
```

use this chart to scrape those metrics and send them to your datastore. This chart provides plenty of options for doing
just that.

## Options

> 1. Use the `k8s.grafana.com/scrape` annotation on your pods or services

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Use the `k8s.grafana.com/scrape` annotation on your pods or services.
```

2. Use Prometheus Operator CRDs, like ServiceMonitors, PodMonitors, or Probes.

> 3. Make custom Grafana Agent Flow configuration

Reviewer: ```suggestion
3. Make a custom Grafana Agent Flow configuration.
```

## Annotations

This chart configures the Grafana Agent to look for Pods and Services that have the `k8s.grafana.com/scrape` annotation
set. When set, the Agent scrapes them for metrics.

Extra annotations can also be set to control the behavior of the discovery and scraping of the metrics:

* `k8s.grafana.com/job: <string>` - Sets the job label.
* `k8s.grafana.com/instance: <string>` - Sets the instance label.
* `k8s.grafana.com/metrics.path: <string>` - Sets the metrics path. Required if the metrics path is not the default
  of `/metrics`.
* `k8s.grafana.com/metrics.portName: <string>` - Specifies the port to scrape, by name. This named port must exist on
  the pod or service.
* `k8s.grafana.com/metrics.portNumber: <number>` - Specifies to port to scrape, by number.
* `k8s.grafana.com/metrics.scheme: [http|https]` - Sets the scheme to use. Required if the scheme is not HTTP.

The chart itself provides additional options:

> * `metrics.autoDiscover.extraRelabelingRules` - Use relabeling rules to filter the pods or services to scrape.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* `metrics.autoDiscover.extraRelabelingRules` - Use relabeling rules to filter the Pods or services to scrape.
```

* `metrics.autoDiscover.metricsTuning` - Specify which metrics to keep or drop.
* `metrics.autoDiscover.extraMetricRelabelingRules` - Use relabeling rules to process the metrics after scraping them.

> These values will apply to all discovered pods and services.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
These values will apply to all discovered Pods and services.
```

## Prometheus Operator CRDs

By default, this chart configures the Grafana Agent to detect and utilize ServiceMonitors, PodMonitors, and Probes. If

> any of those objects are detected on your cluster, the Agent will utilize them to extend its configuration.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
any of those objects are detected on your Cluster, the Agent will utilize them to extend its configuration.
```

> For more information about creating and configuring these options, see

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For more information about creating and configuring these options, refer to
```

the [Prometheus Operator Documentation](https://github.com/prometheus-operator/prometheus-operator).

This chart provides ways to customize how the Agent handles these objects.

### Controlling discovery

These options in the Helm chart allow for changing how Prometheus Operator objects are discovered:

> * `metrics.serviceMonitors.enabled` - If this is set to true, the Agent will look and consume ServiceMonitors

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* `metrics.serviceMonitors.enabled` - If this is set to true, the Agent will look and consume ServiceMonitors.
```

* `metrics.serviceMonitors.namespaces` - Only use ServiceMonitors that exist in these namespaces.
* `metrics.serviceMonitors.selector` - Use
  a [selector](https://grafana.com/docs/agent/latest/flow/reference/components/prometheus.operator.servicemonitors/#selector-block)

>   block to provide more fine-grained selection of objects.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  block to provide a more refined selection of objects.
```

> The same options are present for `metrics.podmonitors` and `metrics.probes`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The same options are present for `metrics.podmonitors` and `metrics.probes`.
```

### Controlling scraping

Most of the scrape configuration is embedded in the Prometheus Operator object itself.

> * `metrics.serviceMonitors.scrapeInterval` - Sets the scrape interval, if one was not specified in the object

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* `metrics.serviceMonitors.scrapeInterval` - Sets the scrape interval, if one was not specified in the object.
```

> The same option is present for `metrics.podmonitors` and `metrics.probes`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The same option is present for `metrics.podmonitors` and `metrics.probes`.
```

### Controlling processing

This chart can set metrics relabeling rules for processing the metrics after scraping them.

* `metrics.serviceMonitors.extraMetricRelabelingRules` - Sets post-scraping rules for
  a [prometheus.relabel](https://grafana.com/docs/agent/latest/flow/reference/components/prometheus.relabel/)
  configuration component.

> The same option is present for `metrics.podmonitors` and `metrics.probes`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The same option is present for `metrics.podmonitors` and `metrics.probes`.
```

* `discovery.kubernetes.endpoints` - Discovers all service endpoints in the cluster
* `discovery.kubernetes.pods` - Discovers all pods in the cluster

These are
all [`discovery.kubernetes`](https://grafana.com/docs/agent/latest/flow/reference/components/discovery.kubernetes/)

> components, which gather all the specific resources, using the Kubernetes API. From here, we want to refine the search

Reviewer: ```suggestion
components which gather all the specific resources using the Kubernetes API. From here, you want to refine the search
```

> to just the service or the pod that we want.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
to the service or the Pod that you want.
```

### Service discovery

> Since you don't want to scrape every service in your cluster, you will use rules to select your specific service based

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Since you don't want to scrape every service in your Cluster, use rules to select your specific service based
```

on its name, namespace, labels, port names or numbers, and many other variables.

> This is done by using

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To do so, use 
```

a [`discovery.relabel`](https://grafana.com/docs/agent/latest/flow/reference/components/discovery.relabel/)

> component and adding one or more rules, using special meta-labels that are set automatically by the

Reviewer: ```suggestion
component and add one or more rules, using special meta-labels that are set automatically by the
```

### Pod discovery

> Similar to service discovery, we use

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Similar to service discovery, you use
```

a [`discovery.relabel`](https://grafana.com/docs/agent/latest/flow/reference/components/discovery.relabel/)

> component to select the specific pod or pods that we want to scrape.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
component to select the specific Pod you want to scrape.
```

The [meta labels for pods](https://grafana.com/docs/agent/latest/flow/reference/components/discovery.kubernetes/#pod-role)
will be slightly different, but the concept is the same.

> Here is an example that filters to a specific set of pods that starts with name "analysis", with the label

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Here is an example that filters to a specific set of Pods that starts with name "analysis", with the label
```

## Scraping

> Now that we've selected the specific pod or service we want, we can scrape it for metrics. This is done with the

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Now that you've selected the specific pod or service you want, you can scrape it for metrics. Do this with the
```

> [`prometheus.scrape`](https://grafana.com/docs/agent/latest/flow/reference/components/prometheus.scrape/) component. At

Reviewer: ```suggestion
[`prometheus.scrape`](https://grafana.com/docs/agent/latest/flow/reference/components/prometheus.scrape/) component. Essentially,
```

> its basic, you only need to declare what things to scrape, and where to send

Reviewer: ```suggestion
 you only need to declare what things to scrape, and where to send
```

## Processing

> Often, we want to do some post-scrape processing to the metrics. Some common reasons are:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Often, you want to do some post-scrape processing to the metrics. Some common reasons are:
```

> * limiting the amount of metrics being sent up to Prometheus

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Limit the amount of metrics being sent up to Prometheus.
```

> * adding labels, changing labels, or dropping labels

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Add, change, or drop labels.
```

The `prometheus.scrape` and `prometheus.relabel` components need to send their outputs to another component. This is the

> purpose of their `forward_to` field. That can be to another `prometheus.relabel` component, but eventually, the final

Reviewer: ```suggestion
purpose of their `forward_to` field. Forwarding can be to another `prometheus.relabel` component, but eventually, the final
```
